---
date: 2009-01-18T00:00:00Z
meta:
  _edit_last: "1"
published: true
status: publish
tags:
- data_mapper
- General
- gerado pis-lopez
- jquery
- mack
- prototype
- rack
- release
- Releases
- ruby 1.9
- Updates
title: Release 0.8.3
type: post
url: /2009/01/18/release-083/
---

Thanks to the cold and snowy New England winter this year, I've been able to devote quite a bit of time to getting Mack to run on Ruby 1.9, so with that said, here's the 0.8.3 release of Mack, featuring... TADA... Ruby 1.9!! Of course there are a few other features and improvements in this release. Here's a quick run down:
<h3>Ruby 1.9</h3>
The big one. Mack runs very well on Ruby 1.9, unfortunately I can't say the same thing about some other frameworks. I've had some run ins with DataMapper on 1.9, but I'm sure those will be ironed out shortly.

A few weeks ago I announced I was working on getting Ruby 1.9 support for all my gems and libraries. I started out with Configatron, then upgraded Cachetastic and Genosaurus. Now Mack is 1.9 compatible. When I made the announcement the guys at RailsEnvy picked up on it and said that I made a call to arms to the community to pick up 1.9 support. Now granted, I didn't actually say those words, but I think the intent was there, so I'm going to now officially say those words. This is a 'call to arms' to the Ruby community to upgrade their gems, plugins, libraries, frameworks, etc... to work on Ruby 1.9. I've done it, and I can tell you, it's not that tough. Just use multiruby, and you're off and running.
<h3>ActiveSupport In, Facets Out</h3>
What with the world getting smaller these days, well, at least the world of Ruby web frameworks. A lot of great work is going into refactoring ActiveSupport and making it faster, better, and smaller. Because of that and the fact that every time a new release of Facets comes out it breaks a whole lot of stuff, I've decided to use ActiveSupport as the basis of the mack-facets gem. So basically mack-facets is just ActiveSupport with a few more enhancements.
<h3>JavaScript Effects</h3>
Thanks to the tireless efforts of Gerardo Pis-Lopez, mack-javascript, has been upgraded to add helpers methods for effects for both Prototype/Scriptaculous and jQuery. Thank you to Gerardo for the much needed upgraded to mack-javascript.
<h3>Upgrades</h3>
Mack has been upgraded to use Rack 0.9.1, DataMapper 0.9.9, and a few other smaller gems.

Changelog:

* #243 - Upgraded to Rack 0.9.1
* #242 - Upgraded to DataMapper 0.9.9
* #241 - Removed dependency on Facets
* #239 - Add do_sqlite3 to gems.rb
* #166 - Effects for mack-javascript
* #133 - Added Form Builders
* #22 - Ruby 1.9 Support
* gem: rack 0.9.1
* gem: rspec 1.1.12
* gem: configatron 2.2.2
* gem: cachetastic 2.1.2
* gem: data_mapper 0.9.9
* gem: addressable 2.0.1
* gem: extlib 0.9.9

